[NDM] Add documentation for ping (#22295)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/network_monitoring/devices/snmp_metrics.md

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> #### Ping

Reviewer: Four #'s will make this a subheading under "Autodiscovery", which I don't think is what you want.

To set up ping with Network Device Monitoring:

1. Install or upgrade the Datadog Agent to v7.52+. For platform specific instructions, see the [Datadog Agent][7] documentation.

2. Edit the `snmp.d/conf.yaml` file in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your [Agent's configuration directory][3] for individual devices or the [`datadog.yaml`][8] Agent configuration file for autodiscovery. See the [sample snmp.d/conf.yaml][4] for all available configuration options.

3. **Linux Only**: If you're receiving errors when running ping, you may need to configure the integration to send pings using a raw socket. This requires elevated privileges and is done using the agent's system-probe. See `linux.use_raw_socket` agent configuration and system-probe configuration below.

**Note**: For autodiscovery, if the device does not respond to SNMP, we will not ping it.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Individual" %}}

- To apply ping settings to all manually configured devices, create ping configuration in the `init_config` section.

	```yaml
	    init_config:
	      loader: core  # use core check implementation of SNMP integration. recommended

> 	      use_device_id_as_hostname: true  # recommended

Reviewer: Are these comments necessary? It makes it look like `use_device_id_as_hostname` is recommended specifically for ping configuration, which I think is confusing (unless that's true?). I think it'd be more useful if you only left in the comments on the actual ping bits

Author: Good call, I'll remove them

	    instances:
	    - ip_address: '1.2.3.4'
	      community_string: 'sample-string'  # enclose with single quote
	      tags:
	        - 'key1:val1'
	        - 'key2:val2'
	      ping:
	        enabled: true            # (default false) enable the ping check
	        linux:                   # (optional) Linux specific configuration
	          use_raw_socket: true   # (optional, default false) send pings using a raw socket (see step 3 above)
	```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Autodiscovery" %}}

- To apply ping settings to all autodiscovery subnets, create ping configuration under the `snmp_listener` section.

	```yaml
	listeners:
	  - name: snmp
	snmp_listener:
	  workers: 100  # number of workers used to discover devices concurrently
	  discovery_interval: 3600  # interval between each autodiscovery in seconds
	  loader: core  # use core check implementation of SNMP integration. recommended

> 	  use_device_id_as_hostname: true  # recommended

Reviewer: Same as above. Unless any of these are *required* - e.g. do you have to use the core loader if you want ping to work?

	  configs:
	    - network_address: 10.10.0.0/24  # CIDR subnet
	      loader: core
	      snmp_version: 2
	      port: 161
	      community_string: '***'  # enclose with single quote
	      tags:
	      - "key1:val1"
	      - "key2:val2"
	      ping:
	        enabled: true            # (default false) enable the ping check
	        linux:                   # (optional) Linux specific configuration
	          use_raw_socket: true   # (optional, default false) send pings using a raw socket (see step 3 above)
	```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

##### Use Raw Sockets (Linux Only)

If you're on Linux and want to use raw sockets for ping, you must also enable ping in the system-probe configuration file in addition to the agent configuration above.

Edit `/etc/datadog-agent/system-probe.yaml` to set the enable flag to true.

```yaml
ping:
  enabled: true
```

> **Note**: The Datadog Agent automatically configures the SNMP check with each of the IPs that are discovered. A discovered device is an IP that responds successfully when being polled using SNMP.

Reviewer: I think this is part of the "Autodiscovery" section and should be before the "Ping" section.

**Note**: The Datadog Agent automatically configures the SNMP check with each of the IPs that are discovered. A discovered device is an IP that responds successfully when being polled using SNMP.

### Ping

> When configured, the SNMP check can also send ICMP pings to your devices. This can be configured for individual as well as autodiscovered devices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When configured, the SNMP check can also send ICMP pings to your devices. This can be configured for individual as well as Autodiscovered devices.
```

To set up ping with Network Device Monitoring:

1. Install or upgrade the Datadog Agent to v7.52+. For platform specific instructions, see the [Datadog Agent][7] documentation.

> 2. Edit the `snmp.d/conf.yaml` file in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your [Agent's configuration directory][3] for individual devices or the [`datadog.yaml`][8] Agent configuration file for autodiscovery. See the [sample snmp.d/conf.yaml][4] for all available configuration options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Edit the `snmp.d/conf.yaml` file in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your [Agent's configuration directory][3] for individual devices or the [`datadog.yaml`][8] Agent configuration file for Autodiscovery. See the [sample snmp.d/conf.yaml][4] for all available configuration options.
```

> 3. **Linux Only**: If you're receiving errors when running ping, you may need to configure the integration to send pings using a raw socket. This requires elevated privileges and is done using the agent's system-probe. See `linux.use_raw_socket` agent configuration and system-probe configuration below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. **Linux Only**: If you're receiving errors when running ping, you may need to configure the integration to send pings using a raw socket. This requires elevated privileges and is done using the Agent's system-probe. See the `linux.use_raw_socket` Agent configuration and system-probe configuration below.
```

> **Note**: For autodiscovery, if the device does not respond to SNMP, we will not ping it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**: For Autodiscovery, Datadog does not ping devices that do not respond to SNMP.
```

	      community_string: 'sample-string'
	      tags:
	        - 'key1:val1'
	        - 'key2:val2'
	      ping:
	        enabled: true            # (default false) enable the ping check
	        linux:                   # (optional) Linux specific configuration
	          use_raw_socket: true   # (optional, default false) send pings using a raw socket (see step 3 above)
	```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Autodiscovery" %}}

- To apply ping settings to all autodiscovery subnets, create ping configuration under the `snmp_listener` section.

	```yaml
	listeners:
	  - name: snmp
	snmp_listener:
	  workers: 100
	  discovery_interval: 3600
	  loader: core
	  use_device_id_as_hostname: true
	  configs:
	    - network_address: 10.10.0.0/24
	      loader: core
	      snmp_version: 2
	      port: 161
	      community_string: '***'
	      tags:
	      - "key1:val1"
	      - "key2:val2"
	      ping:
	        enabled: true            # (default false) enable the ping check
	        linux:                   # (optional) Linux specific configuration
	          use_raw_socket: true   # (optional, default false) send pings using a raw socket (see step 3 above)
	```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> ##### Use Raw Sockets (Linux Only)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
##### Use raw sockets (Linux only)
```

> If you're on Linux and want to use raw sockets for ping, you must also enable ping in the system-probe configuration file in addition to the agent configuration above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're on Linux and want to use raw sockets for ping, you must also enable ping in the system-probe configuration file in addition to the Agent configuration above.
```
